WISDOM OF S'LBA

I

1. Voidness is S'lba: Aossic-bel-Aossic in stance all perfect. The shadow of sleep like a mist in the
Void casts off images which are known as its dreaming. If a man has wealth on waking he has not
necessarily wealth in dreaming. The manifestation of power on a particular plane depends on the
quality of awareness on that plane. The fusion of planes constitutes S'lba, the perpetual bliss impossible
of attainment, being ever in the process of becoming.
2. The Becoming of S'lba is beyond all conditions, being the eternal harmony existent between S'lba
and Aos. There is Nought without S'lba. Nothing exists. Nothing does not exist. Nothing alone is all
it can know, for in its selfhood is its knowing. Speculation about origins, creation, and similar fancies
can not concern S'lba, for it ever was not. This which was not could not have developed thus: and if
it will not be, that which it will not be, also is not, for S'lba being finite would be infinitely small, to
an extreme, non-existent.
3. To seek reason for S'lba betrays fear of it. S'lba is not.
4. It is that which is neither one thing nor another; it is all things and nothing, for All Things include
nothing, even as No Thing excludes conception.
5. To pursue enquiries into realms wherein S'lba moves is futile. S'lba does not move; that alone moves
which S'lba sheds.
6. In a self-made vapour S'lba shines. In a web of words non-relative to S'lba, flounders the self
unfound in swamps of delusion and in dread of not-self.
7. Not-self, which is non-existent, men have worshipped as God. This not-self concept, arising from
S'lba unrevealed, is the cause of restriction in activity as in passivity, which even so is merely apparent
for S'lba remains untouched by the circumference of its circle, the circumference which does not exist
for Not-Self is its centre.
8. These considerations apply to Aossic-Sphere in Moon-Circle: Man sees 'others'. Their positions
determine his progress, being phantoms cast from himself for the sake of observation, of memory, or for
nothing at all.
9. Man loses self in this confusion. He beholds the forms, out cast, as possessing selves of their own.
Herein lies his misery. The measure of his progress and the means of his satisfaction have been thrust
against himself and endowed with Will, the power of which is his own recoiling self-power.
10. Therefore he who would abide in the purity of S'lba must dissolve all forms in their source, which
itself must be cleansed of objectivity and dissolved in S'lba.
11. To neglect this purging is to live in delusion, prey to distortions of S'lba magnified by fear.
12. The phantoms born of stagnancy and dread that men adore as gods have now assumed control, have
drained their vital fires, even as a Talisman pregnant with a Mage's Will stands Mage itself and terrifies
its maker.
13. Transference of Self is all that has occurred; and yet, how fatuous to lift up power from one point to
place it on another!
14. Learn to move by being still; to know by refusing knowledge of that which you desire to know. This
is the art of S'lba, motionless in vibrancy and wonder.
15. S'lba is the Consciousness in which thought arises; it is the substance of thought and that in which
thought moves, itself remaining ever still.
16. S'lba is unrestricted, virgin, limitless and boundless, without purpose, lusting after no result, remaining
ever perfect every moment of its Non-Becomingness.
17. The thoughts which you think, I have already thought, for the Self of which I speak is the self of
which you think, constant co-heir of your becoming.
18. Let the Word of thy Will be the Truth of the Self!
19. The self of yourself, identical in essence to the self of my-self, appears to differ in manifestation, in
emanation.
20. As water appears as oceans, lakes, rivers, pools, and fountains, yet at all times remains water, so
S'lba appears on earth, as you, as me, he, she, it, yet remains forever I.
21. Earth has been invoked, and water. Earth is the stability of your being; Air, the breath of Spirit that
steals from the light of S'lba across the seas of your passion.
22. Know them all as One. Know them all as states created for and by the Self for eternal joy in the contemplation
of S'lba on the summits of the mountains of immaculate solitude.
23. Know them finally as Nought.
24. Why posit purpose for Self?
25. That which is infinite can have no purpose, its very infinity fulfilling all possibilities.
26. He that seeks purpose knows not S'lba, purposeless because eternal, eternal because unborn, immortal
because undead and for ever inconceivable.
27. The Universal Joke has been announced. It is the name of a vision analogous to the realisation of ultimate
irrationality through the Trance of Sorrow which terminates in rapture.
28. Samadhi it may be; it is the realisation by S'lba of the Self's non-relation to the shells of its fancy.
29. Self bears as much, or as little, relation to its conceptions as a child to its food. These conceptions are
the means of its growth through stillness, its destruction through activity.
30. What fool would create a puppet of clay, imagine it spoke, and obey its commands? That fool alone
who is unaware of S'lba, who is immersed in duality, who is inured to folly.
31. Many teachers have arisen and will again arise within the universe. They have been, are, and will be,
misunderstood. They teach not that man should follow their ways, their light, their love, their liberty,
their life, but his own way, his own light, his own love, his own liberty, his own life, which S'lba
alone to each one grants.
32. The Self of None I am!
33. Disintegration of form in madness is proof of your success, if the madness is known as not your own.
34. Let not the fragments obsess. Penetrate yet deeper and you will glimpse the Jewel of S'lba, and come
not back again.
35. This applies to waking states, the realms wherein the self-in-delusion, in confused upheaval 'midst
the excrement of personality, has erected the fantasy of systems. Madness relates only to these selfmade
restrictions.
36. Madness is a state of mind; so is death. Death is but an event in the waking state. No one can dream
his own death. Who dreams it? Like death, madness is ever becoming, ever changing, elusive, ecstatic.
There is no death, but there is release of mind from follies against S'lba.
37. Deficiency of mind also has no bearing on S'lba, back of all, beyond conception, immaculate.
38. It has been wisely said: Consciousness is a disease of Mind. Phases of consciousness, more subtle in
dreams, sometimes achieve non-consciousness, with fleeting dissolution into cosmic samadhi, into
Reality, encountering S'lba in direct awareness.
39. Why should S'lba endeavour to veil Herself in a process of delusive progression?
40. In the explosion of bliss that ensues upon Rapture, the Self casts off phantoms imbued with its fervour.
They objectify and are prone to obsess, but their rejection ensures continuity of bliss. These
phantoms swiftly disperse and in an aeon, may be in a moment, or even in no time, the qliphoth dissolve,
as endless emanations are cast off by the Self.
41. Turn not from bliss to contemplate these forms for they are potent at the instant of their birth. Even
more powerful do they appear in the void of exhaustion. New they appear, and seemingly alien, arrayed
in the costumes of dream.
42. Insidious too are their brilliant reflections. Partaking finitely of the Essence of S'lba they pretend to
infinity, endlessly perfect. He who heeds these shadows of S'lba goes in danger of obsession by the
Children of Isis.
43. So, poised in S'lba, all-embracing, let not the images obsess, for they are dead at the moment of conception,
mere shells, reverberant shards of the Shadow.
44. They are past, impossible of resurrection. Forgotten, they have never existed. In the silence of darkness
they are not; in the pleasure of S'lba they never appeared.
45. Thus extricate Self from the tangle of thought.
46. Think not, for there is but Self to think and to think upon, yet no thought of Self is possible.
47. All that you can ever imagine constitutes Self, which has no image beyond S'lba, and that is Voidness.

II

47 1. In dealings with Self on the plane of active manifestation certain laws prevail:
48 2. Since S'lba is infinite, eternal, and unmanifest at any time except in delusion, concepts such as
hope, faith, despair, motive, are meaningless, being creations of Self in the plane of existence.
49 3. Self manifests in waking life for no reason that falls within the range of human calculation.
50 4. S'lba manifests because it is in the nature of itself to become that which it is not by a process of
consciousness embracing alternative phases of sentience such as pleasure and pain.
51 5. In the levels of waking, the Self performs with power. Applied to the level of sleep this statement
could have no meaning since S'lba is ever present and there is no place where She is not.
52 6. From waking levels Her Play unfolds.
53 7. To guard against the Undermind, and minds unstable which hold one set of concepts false, another
true, and yet another absolute, adhere to the following course:
54 8. Abide alone in places of Selfhood. Even in cities remain alone. If worlds dissolve, see that they
merge in you, for the rivers of their dissolution are a living Light which is the outer robe of
S'lba-bel-Aossic.
55 9. Thus, profoundly sleeping in this Light, select one image of Bel as a symbol of your Force.
56 10. As Zos has shown: the Thumb is one such image. Concentrate upon it.
57 11. In the glint of moonlight on a thumbnail the shades will mass; then refinement of shadow, and a
lightening mist. Ultimately lost, as those Glorious Ones, the eye will droop in sleep, the lid falling
with a hollow click; the lid of an empty coffin, for Osiris is Without, and the Children of Isis return.
58 12. Herein indeed is a New Sexuality, but he who has not Bel-Aossic attained comprehends it not.
59 13. In the full of the moon beneath eaves of darkness, catch the gleam of Light on the nail of the
thumb.
60 14. The stars flicker and go out; the moon appears and vanishes, like a crazy leaper of the backward
paths. S'lba alone abides. You are become the primal power of the new Thumb-Phallic Splendour.
61 15. In your identity therewith is Bel-Aossic perfect, shadowed forth in form as the Sigil of S'lba.
62 16. These Words flashed before me in the Cavern of Initiation:
63 17. In the transference of consciousness to the Thumb of Bel, Self reveals its primal power.
64 18. From the destruction of mind that gives birth to Chaos a zone of mauve is created, a desert of
sand above the Tunnels of Set. The winds hurry through them, a sinister piping bearing the Beetle on
its wings.
65 19. The Thumb is Force, the Pipe of Pan, the Phallus of Set, the Heart of Aossic. It is all these and
more, for these are shadows. It is the Tube of Teitan through which leaps the Fire; the Hair of Nuit
through which shrieks the God; the Flame that is S'lba on the summit of annihilation; the wind that
cools Her Mass in the Temple of Nu Isis.
66 20. Dream not vaguely of nebulous heavens or hells, or births into god-state, or forgiveness of 'sins'.
Know the Now in the Fire of Becoming, of the ecstasy eternal that flows from S'lba when mind has
been hurled to abysmal destruction.
67 21. Know the Self that at all times can be not other than itself; that can know no state because it is
Wholeness, Holiness, Beauty.
68 22. The state Bel-Aossic is primary, sexless. Man must seek inward and pierce the deep centre, unveil
the shrine of his desire and rouse the vague spectres of the Backward Darkness.
69 23. In his progress he has transcended many karmas. With wings he has believed himself endowed,
as he was long aeons since. He has wings now, and horns! He shall have more if he invokes the
Backward Darkness. This is known in Zos Kia Zone.
70 24. Let him embody his desire in symbol passionless, in a glyph suggesting a concept without evoking
its form. Let him embody the ecstasy of Self by thumb-concentration until his mind is exhausted.
71 25. At this moment should the sigil be released. Into the darkness of the Unexpected should it be cast;
into the Outer Darkness, with dazzling swiftness in the act of departure.
72 26. Until· he is lost in reverberant Silence he should not release it, for if there is sound the Self will
not stir.
73 27. Silence is the foundation of the Work.
74 28. Not mere cessation of sound, but the Outer Silence born of Nu Isis that thrills in the darkness on
power-waves of S'lba.
75 29. This silence is the base of the Work.
76 30. From it arises a thin snake of light. It ascends the spine as an arrow.
77 31. In its swift consummation in the zone of Aossic the Sigil becomes. Fulfilment of desire ensues
upon drinking the colours of Isis in the Desert of Set at the time of the hell-bird.
78 32. Should the thumb wrench as a claw in a panic of frenzy; should the fire-tongue leap from the
teeth of Darkness, persist yet in the Working, abiding unmoved by pleasure or pain.
79 33. By this oft-repeated, achieve the exhaustion which enables the Self to project its desire to the root
of Becoming, to the base of That which desires Nought.
80 34. Thus does Self descend into Bel, uniting that which is impossible to that which has not yet occurred.
81 35. Thus does Aossic remain ever perfect, supposing a Bel that fulfils its becoming by means of its
rapture, for Delight is the seal of its Perfection.
82 36. This Wisdom of S'lba contains the pattern of Self in non-mobile Becoming.
83 37. The Hand in action controlled by the Thumb in trance-state all-perfect has drawn these sigils:
84 38. Embodied therein are the karmas of Self in reversion.
85 39. S'lba is beyond definition, but She is not beyond expression in linear form. All Art is Her Yantra.
86 40. On levels of action She appears as a system of sigils bereft of terrestrial significance, from a
source impossible of location and ultimately irrational.
87 41. On levels of reason does the same apply for reason establishes in waking state the impossibility
of knowing S'lba; She is therefore ever virgin.
88 42. Yet from S'lba proceed these sigils, shed in the lightnings of Her Bliss. From this point does the
line proceed as the wine of sex arises from the fountain of Hecate.
89 43. The thumb all-powerful plies the stroke, while within, the perfumes of S'lba announce the kalas
of Change.
90 44. The movement of that metabasis incarnates in the line as a deeply moving current in the wine.
The silence culminating in ecstasy beyond, manifests not, for form may not match its Wonder.
91 45. Even as the line flows, purposeless, pure, so flows the Word that its movement evokes, vibrating
on the lips of the I-mage within the Temple of Bel.
92 46. Should that Word at last explode a star would fly the skies, and fall... ever earthward.
93 47. No more.
94 48. The very Self attained, the Bel splits asunder, and flares again the Awful Fire in Elder Aeons.
95 49. Should the Word burst forth, he that heard it would flame at the last in Glory, a winged spout of
fire engulfed in Outer Darkness.
96 50. He would return not again.
97 51. He would be not again.
98 52. Was he ever, in the process of Becoming?
99 53. S'lba exists alone, and self exists not but to become that purity, purposeless and free, that is the
fulfilling of itself in the realm of Aossic.
100 54. Go forth, and know as you go that none goes with you, for you are all, my Holy Shining One, all
and none in Ilyarun-bel-Aos, whose abode is beyond the Mauve Zone.

III

101 1. The Self in progression is forever Unmanifest, a series of not-selves in ceaseless becoming.
102 2. This Self that is Not-Self is Aossic-bel-S'lba, the state of Before-Time that had no existence.
103 3. Dormant in bliss is this Way, content in its Notness in timeless perfection.
104 4. This is state primal, the plane of Aossic wherefrom that Old One flies forward to No Thing, each
flight a 'self, each way a return, never there but always here.
105 5. Concentrate awareness at the root of the Thumb. Swiftly streams the Force along the shaft of will.
Falter not, hold fast until in the mauve mist the whirling noughts pulsate.
106 6. This chaos vanishes. The mist alone remains, and a differenceless crimson ocean from which
uprears the Tower of Koth.
107 7. Silent sentinel against the Vortex of Negation.
108 8. Massing in the Tower are the spectres of awareness. Removed is the Self from the seat of its function.
Yet it has not moved, albeit you have fused with That that is Not-Thou.
109 9. Yet is it I as much as Thou.
110 10. At this moment of meditation the mind breaks open.
111 11. The Tower crumbles, its dust falls like brittle beetles, silkily, into the Abyss. Falling, falling, falling...
112 12. Man has so fallen.
113 13. Bel-Aossic moves; Aossic moves not.
114 14. Withdraw, slowly, awareness from the symbol of Power.
115 15. Subtly, stealthily, bridge the parapet of spiderweb spanning the nightblack gulf.
116 16. Strange masks float dankly about you, glowing in death's magnetic sleep.
117 17. Identify not; remain immaculate; the pageant will pass.
118 18. Mistake not the masks, one or another, one for another, for they are your death masks. Yet are
they faceless like the god with black paws.
119 19. This is the moment of precipitous obsession. Hold firmly the shaft of extended Will so that desire
blossoms not in belief, as counselled by Zos.
120 20. This meditation has no purpose beyond awareness of S'lba in the state of Bel-Aos.
121 21. For in Aossic it is ever known; in Bel-Aossic it is known only when particles of self emerge in
isolated spectres.
122 22. Then is destroyed the Concept Dualistic; in shattering lightnings the points of night expire. One
star remains. One Truth only.
123 23. Naught remains. Your Self, that Point, dissolves; yet are you still.
124 24. The Self alone abides unmoving. It absorbs nought, it emanates nought, for nought in it abides
not but to become the Impossible.
125 25. As to wakeful workings: Sexuality has made you crave the impossible, for you crave that which
you are not.
126 26. Would you attain to the Silence of S'lba?
127 27. Observe, and be still!
128 28. Self implies Not-Self; Man implies Not-Man. Not-Man appears as Woman, as male implies female.
Sex embraces these concepts; all as Zos has shown.
129 29. Androgyne is concept perfect, obtaining wholeness in all states because it resolves the illusion of
duality.
130 30. But the androgyne in S'lba-zone is Not-Perfect and implies the Not-Man as the Shadow from
Outside. Woman embraces it, thus is she the Gateway.
131 31. Between the stars she achieves Ilyarun-bel-Aossic beyond sex, beyond mind, beyond the clouds
of terrestrial consciousness.
132 32. Reason, too, is false, being but the base of the terrestrial triangle.
133 33. Bel-Aos has the hand, the thumb, the eye, and the mouth. The Phallus is concealed in the Point of
Light, the centre of a Circle swirled in night eternal, the heart of a Dark Star invisible from earth.
134 235 34. Yoni is embodied in symbols stellar-splendid. A star built inwards; rotating on its molten
core it grips the Yod and feeds the vampire flame.
135 35. A state of Neither is born. The Child knows not itself for it is ever coming.
136 36. It attains awareness in the process of becoming the Not-Human that cannot speak its Name.
137 37. Cannot utter its Word.
138 38. The liberated Force is irreversible and impossible of reabsorption into That which sent it forth.
139 39. It is the First and the Last Whirling before the coming of Lam's Egg.
140 40. The soundless Hum, the cry of the whippoorwill. The Egg circulates in space, the Ring-Pass-Not
beyond which vision fails.
141 41. Beyond the rim of that vision the Children of Isis revolve.
142 42. No woman is needed for this attainment if Woman is understood.
143 43. She is an entrance to the Outer Places, and their outrance.
144 44. From the Egg bursts forth a Cry; not the cry of any known Aethyr — and a spiral Call.
145 45. It echoes in the Voids of Vith and secretes a meticulous globule.
146 46. Which flowers into a myriad globes, the bubbles that chatter in the sigil of the Master.
147 47. This conception arises from the friction of movement created by S'lba in Her brilliance immobile;
and within the Self the Egg seethes.
148 48. Until there emerges an insect whose drone is known. The Master once shaped it for meditation.
149 49. From the base mound of the Thumb, from its twin globules in upsurging spirals flows bel-Aos.
150 50. But desire not consummation, for in desiring an object man becomes it. Man can have no image
of this attainment.
151 51. Undisturbed by desire, rejecting desire, perceive that which Desire conceals. Perceive the self cut
sheer from conception.
152 52. All is the Word and the Self is Nought.
153 53. In the still silence know that to know the Self is to know All and Nothing for the Self is Neither,
and beyond them both in non-mobile Becoming.

IV

154 1. It has been decreed: Let the Temple be cleansed; let the false gods be cast out.
155 2. All gods, being conceptions of Self, are true; they come to life in moments of exhaustion.
156 3. But times arrive when temples crumble, idols fall, and I alone remain.
157 4. The dust of the Old Ones shall dance again. In the writhing wind, brilliant with space-frozen flame,
the formless again will form, the sleeping again shall awaken.
158 5. You will sleep!
159 6. On the column of flame will you be borne to the titanic island.
160 7. Amidst storm, skywreck, snow foam, and sea blood.
161 8. You will unite the Gold and the Mauve. The Lama will leave his throne; the Thumb will tremble,
and the Eye spout fire.
162 9. But lessen not the flight; be gloriously lost...
163 10. You are Becoming.
164 11. This is the Hour!
165 12. The Double Power!
166 13. Invoke NOW, by the Sign of Aossic.
167 14. Destroy not, neither create. Within the nightmind alone Desire attains Aossic.
168 15. Realise that Self is All, and worship All; for by robing Self in diversity Pleasure is achieved in a
love beyond compare.
169 16. Desire Nought and All will be yours. Desire for either implies non-attainment of the Vision of
S'lba.
170 17. To Become is all that you can ever do.
171 18. Set each idea against its opposite and in their abolition know reason as confusion by the nature of
its being.
172 19. It is, because balanced. Its balance is maintained by ideas antagonistic, conceptions ever rising
from the causes of their conflict.
173 20. Disintegration of Form in Madness is the Victory achieved by the Ravens of Dispersion.
174 21. Pierce yet deeper until the very walls of mind crumble and fall.
175 22. Within that Gulf S'lba pleasures alone and inviolate.
176 23. You cannot but Become.
177 24. To remain at one with the source of thought assume not the masks. This is the First step; it is also
the Last.
178 25. Aossic attained through non-mobile Becoming yields the knowledge of Impossibility and the key
to the Sphere of Non-Necessity: the realisation of Pleasure in explosion of Self, as Black Eagle instructed
the Zos in the Book of that Name.
179 26. Your powers are incalculably vaster than anything imagined. You have imagined S'lba! — for
S'lba cannot be known.
180 27. Thumb, Eye, Mouth, Hand. These are the magical keys, and the mystical mode of opening the
Gateway is formulated by Zos in a secret glyph guarded by the shade of a water-witch.
181 28. Open the Gate and call to the Wind; the Backward Darkness will respond.
182 29. The Call breeds a slime like a luminous fungus that will adhere to the Gateway. A curious insect
will hover, and attract by its buzzing more of its kind. They are simulacra of the beetles known, yet
unknown, to the Master and to the Lama.
183 30. Strive not to net them. They are outposts of qliphoth-breed; forerunners of the Children of Isis.
184 31. They spin strange threads like the Spiders of Besqul, but they are not spiders and the lines they
trace have no affinity with the Vevers of the Violent Ones who feed upon flesh and know not the subtleties
of S'lba.
185 32. The lines lead below. As it is written:...
there are Thrones under ground and the Monarchs upon them reign over Space and Beyond. Invoke
Them in Darkness, Outside the Circles of Time. In Silence, in Sleep, in Conjurations of Chaos, the
Deep will respond...
186 33. As the Eye bleeds its tears, the Mouth its blood; so also the Egg of Lam, in slime encased, releases
the
187 34. These spectres are harmless, but their blood is devastating. Imbibe it slowly, before its luminosity
altogether dims.
188 35. They are the stealers of your Force within the waking world; they cannot dream.
189 36. Turn within. Let not the blood emerge but constrain the Thumb until the Night of Isis falls.
190 37. Uncertain is all else. Obsession lurks Without.
191 38. Within, all is calm for All has been surpassed, is Not, is the residue of Bliss upon the parapet of
Vith.
192 39. Now assume Pose Bel-Aossic symbolizing S'lba, the state of Becoming resulting from awareness.
193 40. The clenched claw upon the Head, the left claw at the Place of Power, thumb erect.
194 41. This is the Posture Supreme, the posture of Self in the bliss of Becoming.
195 42. Let a minute pass. Another. Soon, if rightly flexed, muscles bound, head back pressed, pulse athrob,
exhaustion supervenes, the earth your bed the sky your dreams.
196 43. In magical sleep proceed with caution. Aossic alone must be within you. His Sigil glows like the
Pyramid of Vith.
197 44. Sink in the Great Within where the Deep Ones dream in seaweed-tangled sleep.
198 45. A circle of light revolves about you. It is the Circle in the Sigil of Aossic, pregnant with the brood
of Isis.
199 46. Observe the lengthening Tower leaning away from the Gulf. They are the I and the О separating
in objectivity.
200 47. The basilisk spirals; Aossic-esses hissing; Ixaxaar!
201 48. Now the moon appears, new, an argent sickle.
202 49. Beyond its curve lies No Thing, annihilation, absorption in the Light of Ilyarun.
203 50. This Sigil is remembered in the bliss of non-mobile Becoming.
204 51. It flashes from darkness to Darkness, the Darkness that is undying, that is more brilliant than Ra-Thek.
205 52. This Sigil seals the Outer Sphere of Mauve known only in the secret love of S'lba.
206 53. IBA!